Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture where we're going to be doing is creating a prediction function essentially continuing
right where we left off last time and creating a function that takes in a model a scalar and then the
actual data set to be analyzed and returns back.
A prediction based off the model let's go ahead and continue in the same notebook as last time.
Okay here we are back at our notebook when we're talking about deploying models.
Really what we're talking about is exchanging data.
We're going to need to accept data in some sort of format and then have it be processed through our
model and then return that data and that data will then just be a prediction.
So it's very typical that Jason is used for this data interchange format.
And Jason stands for a javascript object notation.
Then if you've ever worked with any sort of web app or any sort of API you should probably be familiar
if Jason even if you're not really familiar with Jason that much.
It really looks so similar to a Python dictionary that it will quickly make sense to you.
So what I want to do is first show you an example of what the actual data object we're sending to our
prediction function is going to look like.
So we'll see a flower example and essentially what is going to look like is a dictionary and we're going
to be using double quotes here and there will be a key value pair for everything here.
So what I'm going to do is if I take a look at let's make sure the cell type is code cell type code
I want to first insert above.
And if I take a look at Iris let's take a look at the very first example so we'll just say head of zero
or head of one.
So one row here.
What I want is just to show you what an example data point would actually look like.
Recall that we only need the features.
So some researchers out in the field they're going to mark down these features.
So later on we're going to be doing is sending a Jason object that will look something like this.
So here we have Super Bowl length.
Then we'll have Sipple with we'll go ahead give those values as three point five.
So in describing these values from the first row in our Iris dataset then we'll say oops double quotes
pedal length as one point four.
And then finally pedal and I'll be zero point two notice here I'm not passing in the species because
in the real world situation the researcher picking flowers out in the field is not gonna have access
to the species.
That's what the model is for.
So here I have my flower example.
And although I have it here as a Python dictionary this is essentially exactly what the Jason object
will look like.
So we need to do is create a function and we'll call this function return prediction.
And this function takes in an already trained model a scalar if necessary.
And then some sample Jason string to predict off of and eventually what I want to return is my actual
prediction.
So first thing you need to do is grab all the information off of this Jason object so I'm doing a little
bit of duplication work here but essentially I'm going to do is say s length for simple length is equal
to sample Jason.
So recall this is going to be the sample Jason that's passed in and then we expect that to have a key
of simple length.
And later on or actually the point these we'll show you how to make sure the key names are correct.
And the next one is sample with so let's again sample Jason.
And here it's simple with the next one is going to be pedal length so sample Jason then go ahead ask
for a pedal length and then finally pedal width we'll say sample Jason and ask for pedal underscore
with.
And essentially what this is doing is it's breaking out the individual components from your Jason so
you can imagine that you add a really complex dataset with tons of features you would be breaking off
a very large Jason and if it gets really large you could try using a for loop to try to loop through
those keys okay so we now have our four separate components.
So let's build out what an individual flower would look like.
I'm just gonna assign it as an array because that's the way the model expects it.
So we pass in this single flower
with the measurements from that sample Jason and then what we need to do is transform that flower essentially
scale it.
So we say scalar transform flower recall here that I'm passing in that scalar which is the scalar that
eventually I will load up here as well as the model.
So we scale that flower.
Now it's ready for our model.
So we're going to do is say class index is equal to model predict classes from the flower.
So if I were to take a look they put a new cell here at my encoder.
Recall that the actual encoder to make sure we fix that type of quick.
Make sure that the actual encoder recall has classes associated with it so the encoder classes are set
Tosa the index 0 versus colour index 1 and Virginia index 2.
This essentially lines up with what we transformed y to be which was this one high encoding so recall
I mentioned that we were going to tell you how to understand what index position lines up with which
class.
Well all you need to do is call the same encoder that we used and then call this classes underscore
attribute and it lines up the actual index locations.
So let's go ahead and just grab this array right here.
And since we're not actually passing in this encoder since that's different from this scalar what I'm
going to do is say classes is equal to this num pi array of Cito servers color in Virginia.
So I have this classes and now I have this class index because the model when you pass in an actual
predict classes on the flower it just returns an index 0 1 or 2.
So what I'm going to say here is return and let's first see what happens.
If I were just to return my class index well it's a return prediction on my flower model with my flower
scalar and the single flower example.
So I run that and it returns back this array of a single item.
So if I just grab index 0 the first item off of this rerun both of these then it just returns zero that
returns the actual index.
So what I should probably do here is put a zero there so that I actually get the class index instead
of an array holding the class index which means that I can say classes at the class index and now running
this.
It returns back so Tosa or whatever happens to predict based off the measurements I passed in.
All right.
So what I'm going to do is in a single cell.
Everything that we need to take from our working notebook for deployment recall that notebooks are really
great for working with data visualizing data training models and then editing your models hyper parameters.
But when it comes to deployment I can't really deploy based off of a notebook the way I want to with
an API in a flask application.
Since this notebook is running in a browser you'll start to kind of almost fight with the actual deployment
process.
What I'm going to do is here we'll say code for deployment in a markdown cell and I'm going to type
all the code out necessary for the planet.
A lot of this will just be copy paste.
First I need to be able to load up my model and load up my scalar so that I'll be the two lines we did
earlier from tensor flow that carries that model's import load model.
Import job lib and then we'll go ahead and copy these two loading commands so we'll load up the H5 file
as well as loading up our scalar file.
Let's go ahead and grab this pickle file here and then once you've loaded up your model and your scalar
you just need this return prediction function.
Grab that stick it in here and this is essentially what we need for deployment.
We need to be able to have the correct imports to load up our model and other thing we might need here
since we're calling NDP is say import num pi as MP and any other sort of classes or calls you use.
You may need to load them up but it looks like we should be fine.
Based off this.
Okay so we have our imports load up our model load up or scalar and have a function that takes in that
model a scalar and the example features and then reports back the predicted class.
This is all the code that we're going to be transferring over when we actually run this as a flask application
that accepts an API.
Thanks and we'll see you at the next lecture.